---
layout: post
title: This blog! (meta)
tags: jekyll, github
---

It's been a while! It's been so long, I forgot how to build and deploy
an update to this blog :). What a good opportunity to blog about a reasonable
setup for a personal, static-content-only blog hosted by Github pages!

# Jekyll

I used to spend many-an-hour wringing my hands about the prettiest and best CSS
for a personal blog. Then I found [brutalist web design](https://brutalist-web.design/),
which offers sweet release by embracing simplicity.

But you still need something to actually cobble together the simple HTML files, and
[jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) is the standard course. But software is always changing,
adding features, and regressing bugs. If you only want to update once a year or less,
your scripts will fall out of date.

# Docker

But fear not, it's 2023 and Docker has delivered on its promise of providing for predictable
environments. Why not take a look at the command for generating [this very website](https://github.com/moribellamy/moribellamy.github.io)?

```bash
docker run --rm -it \
  --volume="$PWD:/srv/jekyll" \
  --volume="$PWD/vendor/bundle:/usr/local/bundle" \
  -p 4000:4000 jekyll/jekyll:4.2.2 \
  jekyll serve
```

This will pop out a link at `localhost` which hot-reloads updates as you key them into
your text files!

# Github

Okay, so it looks good locally and it's time to release it to the world. What now?

[Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) has documentation for how to host static content
in your git repo, which github will then serve as a static web page. I always found the initial
set up confusing. But once you get it going, you do have the nice property that it natively
supports Jekyll.

It appears to notice the standard [_config.yml](https://github.com/moribellamy/moribellamy.github.io/blob/main/_config.yml), and
honors its configuration as a Jekyll specification. So github's servers will build the static site for you
on upload! So, it's just

```bash
git commit -am 'update'
git push
```